[Music]
how to train your brain to stop worrying
oh it's quite late time to go to bed and
get a well-deserved rest
only what should I do with that latest
task my boss has assigned me oh and this
dentist appointment on Friday how will I
survive in such a situation familiar to
you you are exhausted after a hard
working day but can't fall asleep too
many disturbing thoughts too many things
you consider problems how to let
everything that bothers you go away and
how to turn on a positivity switch in
your brain we've collected 10 simple
techniques that will teach your mind not
to concentrate on bothersome thoughts
remember to give us a thumbs up for the
information you will no doubt find
useful 10 write down your worries
this technique is believed to be the
most effective it has been proven in
research conducted by the University of
Chicago how does it work well have you
ever had that nagging feeling of worry
that you couldn't really place writing
your problems down will help you to stop
constantly trying to remember which
things you should be worried about after
that your brain will direct its power
not to memorizing but to looking for a
solution to your problems another
interesting idea is to organize special
worry time make a list of the things
that trouble you and try to shoo away
your negative thoughts until it's worry
time only then you can scan the list you
have created it teaches your brain to
get through your day in a worry-free
manner number 9 do physical exercises
scientific studies have proven that
physical exercises are very beneficial
when you experience such symptoms of
nerves as jitteriness it turns out that
when you exercise your body doesn't feel
a strong physical display of stress
therefore your brain interprets it in
the way that there are fewer things to
worry about
in fact regular exercise can be more
efficient than anxiety decreasing drugs
another reason to exercise is that it
increases your serotonin level and this
is the very brain chemical which makes
you feel better and happier at the same
time relieving anxiety number eight
meditate meditation is a perfect
instrument to train the mind it
increases the activity in a special part
of your brain that is responsible for
worrying what is more it keeps you in
the present if you do a meditation
correctly it makes it impossible for you
to dwell on future problems some people
might argue that they don't have any
spare time to meditate but actually even
closing your eyes for half a minute and
tuning out all stressful thoughts is a
perfect beginning for a habit of regular
meditation number seven use the internet
less research conducted recently has
shown that those people whose
communication is mostly limited to
online social networks have more anxiety
issues what's the connection the biggest
problem is that you can start comparing
your achievements or your lifestyle with
those of other people it escalates
stress is you can't relax properly so if
you want to reduce worry in your life it
might be a good idea to spend less time
surfing the net or even switch or gadget
off a couple of times a day it will make
you feel more in control over your life
number six keep your hands occupied if
you do something repetitive with your
hands be it knitting or washing dishes
it might help you to decrease worry and
stress a study has been conducted by the
Medical Research Council recently it has
shown that if you keep your hands
occupied during some worrying situation
later this event won't bother you so
much
unfortunately it doesn't influence how
much we get troubled by the situation
that has already happened number five
use aroma oils
[Music]
surprisingly it is a medically approved
scientific approach the aroma of some
essential oils can be used to decrease
the level of worry and stress at the top
of the list we can find lavender
essential oil which has a relaxing and
calming effect reduces anxiety and
stress another one is rose essential oil
it helps with panic attacks shock and
depression bergamot oil is calming but
at the same time provides energy also it
can cure insomnia if you use chamomile
essential oil you can be sure that it
will reduce irritability worry and
overthinking existing problems the most
typical way to use essential oils is to
put them on your skin nails or hair
which method is more to your liking so
far stay tuned there are more to come
remember to show us how interested you
are by hitting the like button number 4
speak about your worries it is quite
effective to talk your problems through
with the people you are close to they
may provide some useful advice or it
might help you to see the things in
perspective when you hear yourself
outside of your head so to say your
worries may not seem as dramatic as you
have imagined perhaps you will realize
what the basis of your troubles are
though keep in mind that it is important
not to overload your friends and
relatives with a too detailed and to
frequent description of the things
bothering you
number 3 repeat your worries several
times in your head surely it will make
me more anxious might be a reasonable
question at first it definitely will
however after repeating the verbalized
worry several times for several dozens
of times it will lose its power
you see we usually try to suppress the
thoughts about something troubling us
doing such an exercise you get used to
admitting your fears even better after
some time you get bored of them so your
brain doesn't return to them as
frequently as before
number two think about external factors
are you sure that's something worrying
you is indeed your problem emotions can
be transmitted between humans if people
you spend a lot of time with tend to be
anxious and prone to worry they can
infect you with their feelings if you
start thinking about it and find out
that you become worried after meeting
particular people try to spend as little
time with them as possible you will be
surprised how much humans can be
susceptible to the influence of their
social circle number one analyze and
categorize your worries okay imagine the
thoughts about your worries have
secretly infiltrated your brain let them
be it is a good time to analyze and
categorize them first of all try to
answer the following questions honestly
is the problem you are mulling over the
one it is possible to solve if the
answer is yes it is time to start acting
action can be the best cure for your
worry as soon as you draw a plan how you
will be solving this problem your
anxiety will immediately subside well in
case your answer was negative and you
have no power over the situation there
is nothing else left to do than to
accept it and move on what is the
probability that my worry will become
true if it is something that is very
likely to happen well you have all the
rights to feel nervous however if you
truthfully admit to yourself that there
is a very slim chance of your worry
becoming true just let it go why kill
your nerve cells over something that is
unlikely to happen
how bad is the thing you worry about try
to imagine the worst outcome of your
problem after doing this in 90% of cases
you will realize that in fact the
perspective doesn't really look that
gloomy so if you decide your worry won't
lead to a disaster it will help you to
get rid of it while answering these
questions think logically don't let
emotions take over your rational mind
imagine what you would recommend to an
acquaintance with a similar problem
here's one more thing for those of you
who want to improve their brainpower try
changing your diet too much fast food in
the diet and constant overeating
negatively affects connections between
brain cells and as a result the training
and formation of short-term and
long-term memory
in addition eating too much fast feed
may cause depression do you use any
other techniques that help you to stop
worrying share them in the comments
below the video join us on the bright
side
[Music]